[{"Title":"Volcano Simluation","Tools":"Unity,Houdini (fluid simulation), HTC Vive","Developer":"Jacob Claytor","Details":"Due to high demand from K12 visitors eager to see a volcano in the 3D CAVE, we dedicated a student on the Technology Associate Program (TAP) to create a 3D simulation of a volcano.","Client":"SER: EORI","ImageLocation":"http://www.uwyo.edu/ser/_files/images/landing-page/may-3d-viz-resize.jpg","ButtonTitle":"Volcano Sim"},{"Title":"K12 Raspberry Pi, Python, Minecraft, & Scratch Workshops","Tools":"Raspberry Pi 3.  https://scratch.mit.edu/","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The Viz Center in collaboration with the UW Advacned Research Computing Center, designed and delivered hands on Raspberry Pi, Python, Minecraft, and scratch workshops to K12 students from the Laramie Lab School and the Paradise Valley Elementary School, Casper. The project was externally funded by private donors eager to support K12 students with computer science activities. ","Client":"SER: Viz Center, with UWIT, UW Advanced Research Computing Center, Paradise Valley Elementary School, Casper and Laramie Lab School.","ImageLocation":"http://www.pngmart.com/files/4/Circle-Transparent-PNG.png","ButtonTitle":"K12 Pi Workshop"},{"Title":"3D Theater Set Review","Tools":"Ask Jake which scanners/cameras were used.","Developer":"","Details":"A Technology Associate Program (TAP) student intern took on the project of exploring for the Dept. of Theater and Dance how to usilitise innovative data capture methods for the benefit of using digital props in set design. The project involves the student using scanning and photogrammery techniques to capture the props to create an online inventory. This project will allow for students and faculty to desing 3D sets and to include a wide variety of props that are housed in the storage facility. LICENCE UPDATE","Client":"College of A&S: Dept of Theatre & Dance","ImageLocation":"https://www.tripsavvy.com/thmb/FExBKYaJG-EaExSHuOGv_UTO_hI=/960x0/filters:no_upscale():max_bytes(150000):strip_icc()/ss3donscreen_0-5c38c26b46e0fb0001f3feb9.jpg","ButtonTitle":"3D Theater Set Review"},{"Title":"Digitizing Props","Tools":"","Developer":"Jacob Lewis","Details":"","Client":"University of Wyomin: Dept. Theater and Dance","ImageLocation":"https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1080929118261112832/sbjmbvQ6_400x400.jpg","ButtonTitle":"Digitizing Props"},{"Title":"Technology Associate Program (TAP)","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The Technology Associate Program (TAP) is established to provide a tech orientated internship for students. We devise programs of learning and (when ready) project delivery around graphics, computer science, virtual reality, gaming, data capture, and  technology showcasing. Students work using the Agile Scrum methodology, use Trello to track project progress, participate in the STAT (Show Me, Teach Me, Ask Me, Tell Me) sessions. create a Behance portfolio and receive certificates of completion at the end of each semester. TAP student interns are also encouraged to create thier own pesonal VR project to work on, alongside official work. Previous TAP project include: Volcano Simluation, Digitalizing Props, 2D Microbesiery Game, and VR scuplting workshops using TiltBrush.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Tech Associate Prog"},{"Title":"Vortex Simluator","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"This is a meterology visualization tool that uses barometric pressure maps to provide a reference for students to trace vector fields into a 3D volume in order to better visualization the shape of the atmo represented in the map, compared to traditional white board methods/other 2D modes of representation. This tool uses the HTC VIVE head mounted display to enhance students understand of this key learning threshold as part of the class x.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":""},{"Title":"Wyoming Game Jam 2018","Tools":"","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The first Wyoming Game Jam was hosted by Viz Center Virtual Reality Developer Kyle Summerfield. During this statewide programmers  event, the develompent themes are chosen by the participants. 'Sauropod Subterfuge' was the game created, basedon the theme of x.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Wyoming Game Jam 2018"},{"Title":"Wyoming Game Jam 2019","Tools":"","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The first Wyoming Game Jam was hosted by Viz Center Virtual Reality Developer Kyle Summerfield. During this statewide programmers  event, the develompent themes are chosen by the participants. 'x' was the game created, basedon the theme of x.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Wyoming Game Jam 2019"},{"Title":"Wyoming Game Jam 2020","Tools":"","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The Wyoming Game Jam was hosted by Viz Center Virtual Reality Developer Kyle Summerfield. During this statewide programmers  event, the develompent themes are chosen by the participants. 'Creepy Hearts Club' was the game created, basedon the theme of x.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Wyoming Game Jam 2020"},{"Title":"Global Game Jam 2018","Tools":"","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Viz Center Virtual Reality Developer Kyle Summerfield was invited to attend and participate in the Global Game Jam. This is an international event, where programmers from around the world compete in 48 hours to build the best video game, on the provided theme. Window Pain game created, on the theme of transmission.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Global Game Jam 2018"},{"Title":"Global Game Jam 2019","Tools":"","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Viz Center Virtual Reality Developer Kyle Summerfield was invited to attend and participate in the Global Game Jam. This is an international event, where programmers from around the world compete in 48 hours to build the best video game, on the provided theme. The game created was called Snow Blind, on the theme of 'what homes means to you', the team made a game about a very windy and cold place!","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Global Game Jam 2019"},{"Title":"Archeological Spatial Light Simulation","Tools":"","Developer":"Vincent Knepper","Details":"Dr. Todd Surovell utilized the Viz Center to create virtual reality simulations archeological datasets, specifically to experiement with spatial light in tipis. Seek input from TS on this one.","Client":"College of A&S: Department of Anthropology","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Spatial Light"},{"Title":"Flight of the Bombus","Tools":"Unity, Kinect, Photoshop, Illustrator","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"This project revovled around creating an interactive game for K12 students to utilize they visit the Biodiversity Institute. The aim of the game was to enlighten students about different bee wing morphologies, and how this enables them to fly at differing altitudes. Students had to play the game by standing in front of the computer and screen and flapping their arms to interact with the bees to make them fly.","Client":"Other Entities: Biodiversity Institute","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Flight of the Bombus"},{"Title":"Large Scale Point CLoud Rendering","Tools":"Unity, HTC Vive, LiDAR data","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"A contract for services is being provided to the Albright Institute of Archaeological Research and the UW Dept. of Religious Studies to create a tool allowing a networked multiviewer experience of large point cloud data of archaeological sites. The project users 3 levels of resolution to steam only the neseccary points of a cloud to the user, to facilitate large datasets on limited hardware. 06/01/18","Client":"Albright Institute of Archaeological Research","ImageLocation":"http://www.uwyo.edu/ser/_files/images/mastheads/eic-south-view01.jpg","ButtonTitle":"Cloud Rendering"},{"Title":"Multiuser Point Cloud Exploration","Tools":"Unity, Oculus DK2, LiDAR data","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The purpose of this project was to allow for multiple users to view the point cloud dataset. Avatars were provided for each users, and the other user could see the direction in which thier fellow users was directing their gaze. This was made for the DK2.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Cloud Exploration"},{"Title":"CAVE 2 CAVE","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The Center for Advanced Energy Studies (CAES) is a research and education consortium based at Idaho National Laboratory. In collaboration with INL, the Viz Center and the UW Dept.of Computer Sciences a project was devised to expleriment with 'Collaborative Data Visualization Across Virtual Reality Systems' connectivity. The project ran from June 2015 to June 2017. The project delivered a pilot protocol as to how to connect the Viz Center 3D CAVE to the INL 3D CAVE, using Kinect cameras to capture avatar representations of users in one location, and to create them in the 3D CAVE at the other location, as well as being able to watch a user create graphics in their CAVE for it to be seen in the other CAVE.","Client":"School of Energy Resources: Shell 3D Viz Center","ImageLocation":"https://www.uwyo.edu/_shared-assets/images/masthead/college-as-chemlab-electron-microscope.jpg","ButtonTitle":"CAVE 2 CAVE"},{"Title":"Virtual Self Harm Project","Tools":"Leap Motion, HTC VIVE, Unity, Photoshop","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The Viz Center was excited to support the UW Dept. of Psychology in devising a virtual tool to be used in human participant experiments. The experiments were to deterime if self harming particpants could feel reliefe from their real world symptoms should theybe able to self harm in a virtual environment. The UW Institutional Review Board was fully utlised to manage the patient wellfar throughout the program of development and experimentation. Results are pending.","Client":"College of A&S: Department of Psychology","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Virtual SelfHarm "},{"Title":"Police Shooter Training Pilot","Tools":"Unity, CAVE, Modo","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"A pilot program was developed for the UW Dept. of Psychology to explore the viablilty of using the 3D CAVE to present training scenarios for police officers.","Client":"College of A&S: Department of Psychology","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Police Training Pilot"},{"Title":"3D Brain Model","Tools":"Unity, CAVE, model from Zgyot","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The Zygote 3D brain model is utilized by multiple departments at UW, and K12 visits also. The model can be interacted with using the 3D CAVE and the hand held wand device. The user can walk around the 3D brain, and then using the virtual reality tool make selections of the model and move them to reveal others, and text prompts provide the medical data.","Client":"College of A&S: Department of Psychology and Department of Life Sciences Program, College of Ag: Department of Molecular Biology,","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Brain Model"},{"Title":"Software dev Surfing the Green Wave","Tools":"Unity, ArcGIS suite, Photoshop, CAVE, HTC Vive","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Interactive simulation showing mule deer migration snow line retreat. ","Client":"College of A&S: Department of Zoology and Physiology","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Surfing Green Wave"},{"Title":"3D Pollinator Sampling","Tools":"Insta360 Pro, Unity","Developer":"","Details":"A paper entitled 'Use of 3-dimensional videography to improve visual pollinator sampling' was written by Mike Curran, with Viz Center staff as co authors. The experiments held with human particpants involved them viewing the 360 degree camera data and using a clicker to count the bee activity in the scene, rotating at at 90 degree viewing options, to experience the entire 360.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Pollinator Sampling"},{"Title":"Rock Sampling Viz","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Rock surface data in the format of Keyhole Markup Language was imported into the 3D CAVE via whatever tools. This was utilised in a research meeting to consider how utilise immersive tools for the benefit of future research on rock surface, plant life and insects.","Client":"College of Ag: Department of Ecosystem Science and Management","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Rock Sampling"},{"Title":"Wyrim Subcurface Data","Tools":"ArcScene data","Developer":"","Details":"Subsurface data provided by the Enhanced Oil Recovery Institute and displayed in the 3D CAVE using ArcScene is utilisted to engage the communinty and researchers regarding the natural resouces of the state. The dataset was provided by Senior Geologist Nick Jones.","Client":"School of Energy Resources: Enhanced Oil Recovery Institute","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Wyrim Subsurface"},{"Title":"3D Future Form in qualifiying round for Fisher Challenge","Tools":"Unity, HTC Vive headset and tracking pucks, Mixamo","Developer":"","Details":"Virtual Healthy me invention going forward for fisher challenge with two students. Ahmad Elgohary and Raelynn McGuire. aelgohar@uwyo.edu","Client":"School of Energy Resources: Shell 3D Viz Center","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Future Form Fisher"},{"Title":"3D Interactive Campus Map","Tools":"Unity, Modo, CAVE","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield, Vince Knepper","Details":"During the early years of the Viz Center, a project was establish for which Technology Associate Program interns could flex their 3D modelling skills and refine thier understanding of bringing datasets into the 3D CAVE workflow. A 3D interactive model of the campus was created, and buidings added periodically.","Client":"School of Energy Resources: Shell 3D Viz Center","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Campus Map"},{"Title":"3D Future Form","Tools":"Unity, HTC Vive headset and tracking pucks, Mixamo","Developer":"Matt Poremba, Kyle Summerfield","Details":"This research project by the Viz Center, aims to establish if experiencing yourself healthy weight can impact autonomy in motivation. Software development by the Viz Center supporting the pilot project in December 2019, allowed for human participants to experience themselves in a different physiques. The UW Institutional Review Policy was used to ensure the safety and wellfare of the participants. The next phase of the project involves refining the method of data capture, allowing for participants to be scanned.","Client":"School of Energy Resources: Visualization Center","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Future Form"},{"Title":"STEM Molecule Trainer ","Tools":"Unity, CAVE","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"An early project of the Viz Center revolved around supporting a College of Education Faculty member in developing a program for the 3D CAVE a tool to explain how water and oil mix. Text to follow from AB. 01/11/20.","Client":"College of Education: Department of Early Childhood Education","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"STEM Molecule Trainer"},{"Title":"Donor Signage Placement","Tools":"Unity, Revit, CAVE","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Preparation of architect data of high bay research facility. ","Client":"Division of Administration: Foundation","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Donor Sinage"},{"Title":"Gravity Sim","Tools":"Unity, Android","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"This tool was development for mobile application, it allowed users to change the trajectory, weight and environmental gravity for a launched pysics object. The gravity settings were correct for Earth and the Moon, and the terrain would morph depending which settings were selected. The results were then graphed on an X Y plot.","Client":"Other Entities: WYSTEM","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Gravity Sim"},{"Title":"Multidisciplinary project to use augmented reality for teaching of molecular material.","Tools":"","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"","Client":"College of Education: Early Childhood Development","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"AR Life Sciences Trainer"},{"Title":"Created data set visualizing methane analysis 2014 graphical changes through time dependent data","Tools":"Google Earth, CAVE","Developer":"","Details":"Created data set visualizing methane analysis 2014 graphical changes through time dependent data","Client":"College of Engineering: Department of Atmospheric Science","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Methane Analysis"},{"Title":"Archaeological Museum of Zagreb: Bat Cave","Tools":"Agisoft Photoscan, Unity, Photoshop","Developer":"Simon Alexander, Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Professor and Associate Vice Provost for Graduate Education Dr. Jim Ahern collaborated with the Viz Center to bring his research work to a museum exhibition, Croatia. The collaboration culminated in the utilization of the data captured from laser scanner \n in the creation of the innersive interactice scene comprising the bat cave. JA providing text also.","Client":"Archaeological Museum of Zagreb","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Bat Cave"},{"Title":"3D sculpting workshops in virtual reality","Tools":"Tilt Brush, HTC VIVE","Developer":"","Details":"3D sculpting workshops","Client":"School of Energy Resources: Shell 3D Viz Center","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Sculpting"},{"Title":"Short Course: Introduction to 360 3D data capture and VR integration","Tools":"Insta 360, Unity","Developer":"","Details":"This 2 day on site hands on course was designed and delivered by VR Developer Kyle Summerfield. It focused on data capture methods utilising a 360 degree camera, stictching of the data generated and utilization in a virtua reality headset. The goal of the course was to teach the skills required to the attendees allowing them to become self sufficent in this area, enabling them to enhance thier teaching methods at Gillettee College, and to better serve their students by increasing thier safety in the mining workplace. ","Client":"Gillette College, WY","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Data Capture"},{"Title":"Short Course: Introduction to Unity and C# Programming","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"This 2 days on site hands on course was designed to teach attendees how to work with existing data in Unity, how to build virtual environments, and how to create interactions and VR experiences inside Unity using C#. The attendees were motivated to attend through desire to enhance thier existing teaching methods at Gillettee College, and to better serve their students by increasing thier safety in the mining workplace.\n","Client":"Gillette College, WY","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Unity Course"},{"Title":"Utilization of touch screen and 3D model preparation for exhibt at State Museum.","Tools":"Unity, Agisoft Photoscan, Touch screen","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Viz Center supporting Wyoming Archaeology Awareness Month Aug/Sept 2018 at the State Museum in Cheyenne.","Client":"University of Wyoming Archaeological Repository, Office of the Wyoming State Archaeologist","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Arch Awareness Month 2018"},{"Title":"3D Climate Change Sim","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Professor Kipp Koddington of the School of Energy Resources, highted that a current teaching method using traditional white board techniques was challenging due to complex process that was being taught. A simluation was creating using Unity on an Andriod device. The tolls allows the users to see the effect of reflective on solar radation and the changing of various atmospheric conditions on heat retention.","Client":"School of Energy Resources: Center for Economic Geology Research","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D Climate Sim"},{"Title":"Black Hole Sim","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Intern led Unity black hole sim for teaching. Jake Claytor. EA check email on this.","Client":"College of A&S: Department of Physics and Astronomy","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Black Hole Sim"},{"Title":"Maya Vase  ","Tools":"Unity, Modo, Photoshop","Developer":"Vincent Knepper, Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The Viz Center supported the training of a intern on the Technology Associate Program (TAP) allowing her to creating a 3D model of Mayan Vase for Art History II Renaissance Class. Supporting included Unity training and how to bring data into the 3D CAVE environment. Further to the initial development of the model, the content was expanded to include a fully interactie experience by users, for example allowing them to reach out in the 3D CAVE beyond the virtual red velvet rope and destroy the historic virtual replica!","Client":"College of A&S: Dept Art and Art History","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Maya Vase"},{"Title":"Virtual Schroder House ","Tools":"Unity, Modo, Photoshop","Developer":"Vincent Knepper, Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The Viz Center supported the development of the virtual 3D Schroder House which was to be utilized in the Computer Graphics II Class in the Dept. of Art.","Client":"College of A&S: Dept Art and Art History","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Schroder House"},{"Title":"Information Visualization","Tools":"Unity, Modo, CAVE","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Viz center supported grad student Christina Mendoza. Viz center facilitated learning of modo package and prepared data for CAVE. Concluded summer 2016 committee utilized Cave during Thesis presentation. ","Client":"College of A&S: Dept of Statistics","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Information Visualization"},{"Title":"Experiment in use for design review class. Students reported increased sense of space when using the cave when compared to traditional design review. Usage continues.","Tools":"Unity, Revit, CAVE","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Experiment in use for design review class. Students reported increased sense of space when using the cave when compared to traditional design review. Usage continues.","Client":"College of Engineering and applied sciences: Civil and archetual engineering","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Design Review"},{"Title":"SoilSim 1.0","Tools":"Unity, Insta360 Pro, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTC Vive, Android","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"KS For the benefit of enhancing teaching Dr. Karen Vaughn of the UW Dept. of Ecosystem Science and Management, utilized software development services in the Viz Center. A 3D soil model was embedded into a 3D photograph allowing users to lift ifo ut of the ground and examine the layers, formed by the process central to the class content. This tool was avialalbe on mobile devices and HTV VIVE head mounted displays. It had full voice overs and several layers of dymanic pop up and labeling systems and suppliementary animation for each process discussed.","Client":"College of Agriculture: Dept of Ecosystem Science and Managemt ","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"SoilSim 1.0"},{"Title":"SoilSIm 2.0","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The concept here is to expand the scope of SoilSim 1.0 to include most major biomes in the United States. It will include 3 levels of specificity, begining with a nation map, followed by intermedite region maps and finally the individual locations themselves. Each location will have its own version of SoilSim 1.0 for users to explore using VR and mobile devices.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"SoilSim 2.0"},{"Title":"Used the Viz Center to support the visualization comonent of his Masters thesis.","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Created an interactive visualization of an asteroid nucleus of the comet Borrelly.","Client":"College of Engineering: Department of Computer Science","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Asteroid Nucleus"},{"Title":"King Kong!","Tools":"Agisoft Metashape, Unity, HTC Vive","Developer":"","Details":"A collaborative project with the UW art museum, and UW Coe Library sees a student of the Technology Associate Programme (TAP) use photogrammetry techniques to capture the tricerotops from the 1933 King Kong movie. The goal of the project is to preserve \nthe real world model by creating a digital representation.","Client":"Other Academic Entities: American Heritage Center","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"King Kong!"},{"Title":"LL, Alix Privin. Hellgap in 3D. Poster was at the Society for American Archaeology","Tools":"","Developer":"Jacob Lewis","Details":"Look up the poster for the info.","Client":"College of A&S: Dept. Anthropogy","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"3D HellGap"},{"Title":"3D Visualization of a rock art panel.Poster at the Wyoming Archaeology Society.","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"","Client":"College of A&S: Dept. Anthropogy","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Rock Art Panel"},{"Title":"Augmented Reality for STEM","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"THis NASA Space Grant Consortium  funded project, uses Augmented Reality to increase students understanding of fundamental STEM concepts, specifically chemistry. There are several multiusers modules where stuents mist work together to flesh out the understanding of the core concept of each unit. Topics covered so far include basic molecular bonding, diffusion, and ion water interactions. This tool will be utilised throughout the course of the semester by students, they will wear the Microsoft Hololens (or comparable device). The holograms will be coloated, and each users will agree on a postion, this allows for shared interactions without the expense and contraint of physical props. A physical prop would not be able to represent the changing states of the dataset, but the virtual datasets can be mainipulated both by students and the professors to acheive the learning goal. The augmented aspects of this allow for the students to see eachother in the working classroom environment.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"AR STEM"},{"Title":"Wonderland Performance","Tools":"Unity, Tilt Brush, HTC Vive, Insta360 Pro","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"An exceiting collaboraton between the Viz Center and the Dept. of Theater and Dande saw Viz Center Virtual Reality Developer Kyle SUmmerfield draw on his visual art background to create a vivid world that beautifully set the stage for the performance, complete with the Cheshire Cat and reference to the set design.  Experiencing the VR world primed the audience for the performance in an exciting way, and was a great addition to the theatrical experience.  Beyond the development of the virtual Wonderland, , Kyle managed the setup and installationof 5 virtual reality workstation supporting the audience experience prior to the performances.","Client":"UW Dept. of Theater and Dance","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Wonderland Performance"},{"Title":"Vertical Dance","Tools":"Insta360 Pro","Developer":"Emma-Jane Alexander, Kyle Summerfield","Details":"The 3D Viz Center provided services to the UW Dept. of Theater and Dance to utilize 360 video data capture technology to film the Vertical Dance performance at Vedauwoo. Dance is a 3-dimensional art, and is not always well represented in 2 dimensional media, the 360 degree footage and processing of “Dancing between Earth and Sky”, presented in 2018 set a new standard for how audiences can experience the full dimension of dance.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Vertical Dance"},{"Title":"Viking Economics","Tools":"Unity, HTC Vive","Developer":"Kyle Summerfield","Details":"Data sought from (Unity Asset Store) was brought into the Viz Center VIVE displays (head mounted display) allowing students to experience close up a viking long. ECON/INST 1101, Viking Economics First Year Seminar, aims to give students a leg up in their transition to college by building a cohort of students who meet and travel together to Iceland over the summer before their first year at UW.  The course introduces them to resources on campus and through research projects hones their scholarly habits of the mind using the subject of the Vikings.  Beyond their reputation as raiders, the Vikings were innovators, explorers, entrepreneurs, and traders, enabled by their superior maritime technology.  The purpose of the session in the UW Viz Center was to give the students a sense of the difference that technology made, as well as the parameters and restrictions of maritime exploration and trading in a Viking cargo long ship.  The students first built a crude long ship out of string using dimensional data from archaeological findings.  This was not usable for the Viz Center, so the staff found other computer generated data to allow the students to visualize being on a long ship. The session gave the students the opportunity to see the multiple modeling opportunities at the EIC and expand their thinking, beyond video games, of the uses of VR and related technology. It also introduced them to internship opportunities with the center.","Client":"ARCC/Viz Center Collaboration","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Viking Economics"},{"Title":"Collabroative Design Review","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The UW Dept. of Civil and Architectural Engineering have utilized the Viz Center 3D CAVE, VIVE head mounted displays and the mobile laboratory to provide immersive experiences of architectural data. Expand on this with the name of the class.","Client":"College of A&S: Dept. of Civil and Architectural Engineering","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Collab Design"},{"Title":"Collaborative Design Review","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Sam Farstad (Sr. Project Manager, UW Planning and Construction) utilized the 3D Viz Center in the development of the EERB (Engineering Education and Research Building). Sam reviewed the model during construction purely as a tool to market the new space. It served to get key stakeholders very excited about the finished product. It was also a great introduction to the 3D Center for the UW construction and design teams.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Collab Design"},{"Title":"Collaborative Design Review","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Sam Farstad (Sr. Project Manager, UW Planning and Construction) utilized the 3D Viz Center in the development of the SI (Science Initiative) – they initially reviewed this model in design development (50%) with future occupants and the design team. The result(s) were very beneficial. They changed the feature stair orientation for aesthetics and beneficial use, and answered several questions about the size and scale of collaboration space. They reviewed the model again at the (50%) construction document phase for a few stakeholders. This review was helpful in determining what elements of the model are important to include, and for what reasons, also it identified some areas that would be helpful in navigating the model, i.e. an imbedded map for reference.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Collab Design"},{"Title":"Collaborative Design Review","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Sam Farstad (Sr. Project Manager, UW Planning and Construction) utilized the 3D Viz Center in the development of the WCSEP (West Campus Satellite Energy Plant) – they reviewed this model in design development (50%) with the design, construction, and plant operators. This walk informed a change to the loading doc area, the primary lower level stair access, and a few mechanical clean-ups in the model. This was a great illustration of the design review benefit of utiliizing the 3D Center. It was also a scorecard of sorts for the design team, this being their first capital project for UW.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Collab Design"},{"Title":"Graphic Illustration Services","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The Viz Center support faculty and PhD candidates in the preparation of research papers by creating images to support thier research. Working in the Agile fashion, the client provides an inital brief, then reviews with the Viz Center staff/TAP intern every week the progress on the images.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Graphic Illustration"},{"Title":"The Haunted","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The Technology Assocaite Program student interns were directed to adopt a group project on year, and were instructed that this could take the form of a data capture, visualization or augmented reality project. The TAP students decided utliize the architects model of the Energy Innovation Center, and to create a 'Haunted Halloween' version. Soon there was spooky overlay music playing the in lab, combined with a particle system driven skeleton hide go seek, and a tourch light on the users hand! This project allowed the students a high level of creative freedom, whilst keeping their eye on the game of creating a spooky experience for users of the 3D CAVE.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"The Haunted"},{"Title":"Tesseract","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"This work effort supported the class Introduction to Abstract Algebra, for the Dept. of Civil and Architectural Engineering. A modifiable tesseract (which is a 4D cube) was creating used Unity, for the purpose of visualizing 4D shapes for the class.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Tesseract"},{"Title":"Asteroid Sim","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The Viz Center can be utilized by students seeking to enhance mode of communication to a research project commitee, such as MSc or PhD. A Computer Science MSc candidate chose to bring thier asteroid data into the 3D CAVE for means of communicating the data during thier thesis presentation. The data was obstained from a publically avaialble NASA point cloud representaiton of the asteroid.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Asteroid Sim"},{"Title":"The Green Wave","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"This project supported the UW Dept. of Ecosystem and Science Management, creating a tool which communicated how mule deer surf the green wave of fresh vegitation as the snow melts.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Green Wave"},{"Title":"Flats & Solids","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"This K12 project was delivered by Technology Associate Program (TAP) student interns. They worked using the Agile methodology with the Laramie Lab School to fully determine their needs, and to inform them of weekly progress. The 2 students working in collaboration utilised the 3D CAVE to create a play environment allowing students to view 2D shapes whic were flat on the floor and walls of the CAVE. As the students used the hand held interaction device, they could pull the 'trigger' which pointing at thier shape of choice to reveal it in 3D. The shape would slide out of the screen and reveal its 3D geometry. Students who were awaiting their turn used the wooden shapes and feely bags in the laboratory to guess shapes prior to the 3D CAVE immersive experience. Students were tasked with 'virtually tidying up thier play space' by clicking on the shapes to slide them back into the walls for the next user.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Flats & Solids"},{"Title":"Model Viewer StarWars","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"The Viz Center Virtual Reality Developer Kyle Sumerfield wrote a generic model viewer for the purpose of easily visualizaing 3D data in the CAVE such as porous rock media scans (e.g. .obj, .fbx), 3d dataplot of hydraulic fluid efficiencies, Star Wars models, and an oil and shale concentration slice, and a petroglyph.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Star Wars Model"},{"Title":"Barcelona Pavillion","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"This dataset was brought into the 3D CAVE to support the teaching of x class, for the Dept. of Civil and Architectural Engineering.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"Barcelona Pavillion"},{"Title":"CAVE Voxel Painter","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Voxel Painter, allows the user to activate and color voxels inside the CAVE volume. The user can scale the geometry inside the 3D CAVE using the hand held wand, creating the feeling of painting in a 3D volume.","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"CAVE Voxel"},{"Title":"CAE Spline Painter","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"Spline Painter, from a technical perspectice uses spines to trace the motion of the hand held tracked wand device. The splines are populated with particals chosen by the user, allowing for different color and shape characteristics for each creative stroke. It also has a cloning function where large sections of geometry can be copied and pasted in the virtual reality scene","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":"CAVE Spline"},{"Title":"Testimonials","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"\"I joined the computer science department very late into my college career and felt extremely out of my element. I stumbled onto the Viz Center during a tour for my Calculus I class which I was taking during a busy summer of catching up on math and science. I fell in love immediately and wanted to find out what it took to become an intern. I sent out an email, scheduled an interview, started as a volunteer and remained with the Viz Center for the last two years of my schooling. In that time I learned how to directly apply what I was learning in computer science courses. Not only that, but it was exciting work. I modeled a quasar, simulated volcano eruptions, worked with the latest and greatest tech. I will never forget my time with the Viz Center and often wish I never had to move on. The experience I gained was priceless. I can't be any more thankful that I worked here and learned gaming technology like Unity. Because I currently work for a government contractor using that very same technology! I grow every day and am always learning new skills, and I have the Viz Center to thank for a memorable and solid foundation.\" Jake Claytor (insert degree)","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":""},{"Title":"Testimonials","Tools":"","Developer":"","Details":"\"I have currently been out of academia for roughly three years now, and it has been almost four since I retired from my Student Ambassador position and my office work that I provided for the 3-D visualization at the Energy Innovation Center. I worked as an office assistant providing connections to the program, and introducing the CAVE to students and professional entities. The position help me shape my career by allowing me to get hands on training with the CAVE and to also continue my studies with my petroleum land management degree. This office assistant position set me up by allowing me to lead lectures and to introduce something that most people did not know anything about. This leadership role helped me speak in front of my entire department about navigable water procedures due to eminent domain laws. While continuing my studies I was able to gain book knowledge about my area of study and develop speaking skills thanks to the 3-D visualization center. I was able to expand my learning not just through my major but something completely different that will eventually help expand the world we live in. I really appreciate Emma Jane Alexander a.k.a “E.J.” for allowing me to work and learn in her office space and be accountable for work being done in the office. Being a student worker was one of the best choices I could have made for my future and my career\".","Client":"","ImageLocation":"","ButtonTitle":""}]